welcome to the man of recaps this is
West world season 2 at the end of season
1 Dolores killed West world founder
Robert Ford and all the hosts have had
restrictions on hurting humans removed
so Dolores is leading them in a robot
uprising season 2 begins with Bernard
the head of programming waking up two
weeks later when the rescue crews
finally here remember he just found out
that he's a host himself based on Robert
Ford's old partner Arnold luckily no one
else knows this or they would shoot him
immediately turns out a whole section of
the park is flooded now and most of the
hosts are dead in the water what the
heck happened here Bernards got no
memory of it yes the show continues to
be extremely confusing because we're
following multiple time frames again
back on the night of the party the hosts
were running wild the notorious milk
bandits doing what they're programmed to
terrorizing people not all the hosts are
violent now many still just following
their programming but the humans aren't
taking chances
Dolores though is on a murder spree she
is fully self conscious now remembers
all the terrible things humans have ever
done to her and has no mercy for him
he's five empty nights one human that
survived is William the man in black
most of his fellow board members are
killed but he's been shooting robots in
Westworld basically his whole life this
is what he lives for
the douche bag story director Lee
Sizemore is in a difficult spot but he's
saved by maze she can still control
other hosts where no one else can and
she's on a mission to rescue her fake
robot daughter from her previous role
before she was madam of the brothel she
recruits her love interest the sexy
outlaw heck door as well as his
right-hand woman arms dis and the two
techs Sylvester and Felix who are
somehow still caught up in this Bernard
meets up with board member Charlotte
Hale she calls for help but no one's
come until she can secure the data the
super secret data she stored inside
Dolores his old father's head to sneak
it out of the park without for knowing
Dolores meets up with the Confederate
oohs she's already recruited a gang of
her own including Teddy the master
gunslinger with a heart of gold he's not
fully self-aware yet so he doesn't
really understand what's happening but
he'll follow Dolores anywhere Dolores
knows that security will be coming for
them with futuristic automatic weapons
so they got a team up to survive but she
betrays the Confederate os-- locks the
mountain blows up the nitro
killing the hosts and humans alike it's
like what the hell bro we're robots just
like you but she's like nah you
Confederate O's are a bunch of
douchebags
Teddy finish him off but Teddy's not
into killing unarmed
prisoners so he lets him go and
unfortunately he failed the test sorry
Teddy I've got no use for a goody
two-shoes right now she makes a text she
captured to reprogram him and now he is
full darkside cold-blooded killer
Bernard through much in Anakin's get
separated from Charlotte Hale but meets
up with junior programmer Elsie it's
like hey you're alive I was pretty sure
if Ford made me kill you last season
luckily he just chained her up here and
she is reasonably very mad at him until
she finds out he's a robot and was just
acting under crazy dr. Ford's control
they find a secret off-the-books
facility run by the parent company
dillos what was dillos doing here
remember William and Logan bought
Westworld for dello SPAC in season 1
Logan's father James Delos was not
impressed with their investment did a
robot western theme park but William
convinced him the theme park is not the
point
turns out Delos is dying of some disease
and they're planning to put his mind in
a new robot body first they just have a
little interview to establish fidelity
which means that after he's a robot
they'll have the exact same conversation
and turns out this is the after
interview it worked I'm a robot now I
cheated death but unfortunately he can't
go home see right at this point in the
conversation is where he always starts
breaking down it's like don't worry I
know we'll figure it out soon let's burn
you up and try again but years go by
William has grown up into Ed Harris and
they still never figured it out in fact
Williams shutting down the program for
now it's like you know you're a terrible
person anyway and no one's even left
alive who wants you back so he doesn't
bother burning him this time he just
leaves him there so in the present
Bernard and Elsie find robot Telos
totally out of his mind they go ahead
and set the fire present-day William
goes and saves his old robot best friend
Lawrence a funny running joke from
season one his mission is to get to the
forge the big server room where they're
storing all the data they've collected
on guests over the years and destroy it
they stopped by Lawrence's hometown but
the surviving Confederate O's have taken
it over
men in black figures he may as well
ditch Lawrence and join up with them but
when they're tormenting Lawrence and his
family he's like oh I kind of want to be
the good guy this time he has one of the
coolest western lines ever
you know death you didn't recognize him
sitting across from you this whole time
yeah does what he does best and shoots
up all these confederate oohs now I
wouldn't say his alignments shifted too
good he is still a psychopath who makes
this guy drink the Nitro and then
explodes him so maybe he's in the
chaotic neutral range may even her party
are on their quest when they're attacked
by a samurai yes samurai world was
teased in season one and now we're going
there they'll get a little deja vu
though as this guy's robbing the bank
the same way Hector always does Lee
Sizemore's like yeah I may have borrowed
from Westworld a little bit so they're
on a side quest to protect Maeve's
doppelgangers daughter from the Shogun
who kills her so during the geishas
dance she kills the Shogun they're gonna
be executed but mave logs into the Wi-Fi
and is able to control other hosts now
without speaking she has all the
Shogun's men kill each other then picks
up the katana for an epic action
sequence that unfortunately happens off
screen Bernard and Elsie trying to
reboot the system but they have to go
into the cradle where all the hosts
backups are held bernard plugs himself
in and it's a virtual west world where
all the hosts surge is going about their
business but there is someone who
doesn't belong Robert Ford
yeah he's the ghost in the machine he
had Bernard make a copy of his mind and
plug him in here a while back the human
mind copies always fail once you put him
in a body but here in a virtual world
he's going strong Bernards like okay for
it at the end of season one we still had
no idea what your motivations were are
you gonna tell us but he's like nope
it's still gonna be totally ambiguous I
am though gonna need to hitch a ride in
your body
so now Bernards got virtual Ford in his
head and if he doesn't follow his orders
he can briefly take full control
meanwhile Charlotte Hale finally found
Dolores as dad so the rescues coming in
except as soon as they get there
something's wrong Dolores his crew has
unhooked the locomotive and is crashing
it into the headquarters so they bust in
ready for a robot human showdown
unfortunately the robots are in disguise
and basically wiped them all out
Dolores finds her dad but his head is
too jumbled he's beyond repair so she
just takes his brain Williams on his
quest when he runs into a mysterious
rider his daughter turns out she was
vacationing and yet another part of the
park colonial India world the host there
started killing guests too including the
Tigers but she managed to get away she's
like hey Dad I found you let's get out
of here
he doesn't believe it's really her he
thinks she's a robot built by Ford set
to torment him so he ditches her
immediately meanwhile Maeve finally
finds her daughter a beautiful reunion
except of course she's been replaced by
a new robot mom just then the savage
ghost nation tribe rolls up so it's a
big ol fight maven her daughter hide in
their house and who should walk in but
the man in black it was the same moment
in the past where he first killed her
daughter and awakened mames
consciousness names like this time I'm
shooting you Lawrence goes to save him
hey he saved my family names like maybe
this time darling but she unlocks his
memories of the past where he's killed
his family so Lawrence turns on William
but before he can finish him oh he gets
shot our rescue teams arrived Lee
Sizemore figured it was finally time to
call for a pickup but they shoot down
Maeve before he can stop him he didn't
mean for her to get her there a terrible
rescue team they don't notice the boss
man dying in the dirt he's found by
ghost nation guy but he doesn't kill him
turns out he's a pacifist who gets a
whole episode dedicated to his backstory
he used to be part of a nice peaceful
Indian tribe until they decided that was
boring and reprogrammed him as something
more fun but he was actually among the
first hosts to discover the maze and
become self-aware he had a whole
adventure and love story but long story
short he wants to stop Dolores from
killing everyone in fact his tribe
confronts her like hey stop killing
people and she's like I don't think so
sick I'm teddy
but finally Teddy becomes self-aware
remembers he's not a cold-blooded killer
he draws his gun and Dolores is like
come on Teddy you're not gonna hurt me
he's like no Dolores I could never hurt
you but I can't help you anymore
so Teddy kills himself Oh even though
Dolores is full Mad Queen Daenerys these
days she still loved her Jon Snow
Williams daughter eventually picks him
up and we get his backstory his wife had
a lot of issues including a drinking
problem mainly because she could tell he
was a secret sociopath one day she saw
his West world records of all the
terrible things he's done and this was
too much for her she killed herself his
daughter's like yeah I saw your records
too you have some problems just then a
rescue team arrives but William shoots
the ball down it's like what the hell
dad those were real people he's like now
it weren't and neither are you
Oh shoots his daughter he's like I know
you're lying for it my daughter never
saw my West World Records but turns out
she did her mother secretly left them
for her so William
as he did just kill his real-life
daughter so he's gonna kill himself but
then he thinks wait a second what if
none of this is real and he sits down to
check if he's a robot
Dolores finds him there realizing that
he is in fact real and she's like come
on get up I need your help
turns out she wants to go to the forge
also Bernard is heading there too he's
sick a foreword in his head though so he
manages to delete him these three meet
up William figures it's a good time to
betray Dolores but this time she's the
one who's immune to bullets his last
shot backfires and she leaves him there
to bleed out so Dolores and Bernard go
down to the forge the data on her
father's brain was the access key she
and Bernard plugged themselves into the
server where the program greets them as
Logan deloused he's like hey guys yeah
my job was to decode all the data of
what the humans did when they came to
the park and then use it to build an
accurate program for their brain turns
out the human mind is deceptively simple
we are just dumb animals who think we're
smart but are basically just working on
instinct in fact the code for a person
fits into a real slim little book and
he's got a library full of um every
guest that's ever come to Westworld
this is what Dolores is after she starts
speed reading them all because she wants
to understand humanity so she can go
conquer them and turns out Bernard was
here before under Ford's control and
created a virtual paradise for all the
hosts to live in peace many hosts in
fact are on their way it's part of the
ghost nation guys thing that a door to
another world would be here and now that
Bernards turned it on boom the doors
opened for him it scans in their mind
but drops their body off the cliff but
hey who needs a body when your brains in
paradise Dolores doesn't like it though
she thinks it's just another cage to
keep the host oppressed and wants to
delete it
Bernard pulls a gun on her like hey they
deserve the choice to live in peace if
they want
Dolores ain't backing down so Bernard
shoots her meanwhile the humans have
Maeve and they figure out how she's
controlling other hosts they programmed
that in to Clementine and have her send
out a signal for all hosts to kill each
other yes it is a robot zombie virus
Maeve's friends bust into rescuer but
she rescues herself causes a stampede
with the robot balls they had to pinned
down and Hector's like you go I'll hold
them off he starts giving the epic
speech he never got to finish in season
1 but he's interrupted again Lee
Sizemore's like hey I feel bad for
betraying Maeve earlier and anyway I
wrote that speech so he delivers his
epic speech while making a final stand
full decision because as a human he can
die permanently and indeed goes down in
a hail of gunfire may even friends get
to the door but right behind them is
death on a pale horse its Clementine
causing an epic all-out brawl may finds
her daughter and channels neo from the
matrix stops the fight just long enough
for her daughter to escape ghost nation
guy - if you care about him but someone
finally shoots her and she's down for
good Bernard cancelled the deletion but
he can't stop the water's rising so
that's why this whole place floods but
when he sees the human slaughtered all
the hosts it's like why they weren't
hurting anyone they were leaving else
he's like I don't know man they were
killer robots I don't feel bad in fact
she doesn't trust Bernard anymore I
they're gonna probably shut him down -
first she confront Charlotte hell like
hey you were illegally monitoring guests
and creating virtual copies of their
brains I'm gonna turn you in she's like
okay Ned Stark why would you tell me
first when you play the game of Thrones
you win or you die Bernard's like wow
humans really are the worst so he
summons an imaginary Robert Ford he's
like hey the humans probably just gonna
kill us all what do I do an imaginary
for it's like don't worry I got just the
plan so in the two weeks later story
they eventually realized Bernards a
robot they haven't lead them back down
to the forge where they finally get the
data they've been after this whole time
but what Charlotte Hale starts shooting
everyone why would she do this oh
Bernards memories coming back he an
imaginary Ford secretly built a new host
a robot copy of Charlotte Hale and put
in Delores his mind then Bernard
scrambled his own memories so no one
could find out so future Charlotte Hale
has been Dolores this whole time she's
like hey thanks Bernard for the revive
in fact you've made me rethink this
virtual world thing she uploads Teddy's
mind into it and transfers all their
data to the cloud where they can live
happily ever after she's got other plans
for Bernard though she kills him and so
the parks basically cleaned up now
they're evacuating the last of the
survivors everyone believes Dolores is
Charlotte but they're still taking no
chances with robots getting off the
island but she meets up with Ashley
Stubbs the security guy we thought died
in season one he had a little part this
season in the two weeks later storyline
he has an incredibly vague conversation
with her that implies he maybe knows
she's Dolores or maybe he's a host
himself or maybe he's just really bad at
his job cuz he waves her on through so
Dolores as char
Hale head in for the real world
Sylvester and Felix both survived and
will almost certainly resurrect Maeve
the man in black survived this too so
William will be back in fact he had an
after the credits scene where he
followed Dolores and Bernard down into
the forge but it was all abandoned
already this must be years later and his
daughter was there waiting for him it's
a fidelity test situation so this is
either the future or he's dead or a
robot anyway Dolores managed to smuggle
out a few host friends with her and one
of them's Bernhard she rebuilds him in
the real world and is like okay I owed
you one this was a freebie but I am
still on my mission to wipe out or
enslave humanity and I feel like you're
gonna want to stop me on that so we'll
be enemies in season three so Bernards
in the human world out to forge his own
destiny and that's how Westworld season
2 comes to an end if you liked this
recap hit that subscribe button I'm
bringing you the best recaps of TV and
movies so don't miss out
[Music]